+++
title = "ESL-2.2 Variable Types and Terminology"
summary = """
"""

date = 2018-08-11T11:52:07+08:00
lastmod = 2018-08-11T15:05:10+08:00
draft = true 
math = true

authors = ["Butters"]

tags = ["译文"]
categories = ["统计学习基础（译注）"]

[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
preview = true
+++

The outputs vary in nature among the examples. In the glucose prediction
example, the output is a quantitative measurement, where some measure-
ments are bigger than others, and measurements close in value are close
in nature. In the famous Iris discrimination example due to R. A. Fisher,
the output is qualitative (species of Iris) and assumes values in a finite set
G = {Virginica, Setosa and Versicolor}. In the handwritten digit example
the output is one of 10 different digit classes: G = {0, 1, . . . , 9}. In both of
these there is no explicit ordering in the classes, and in fact often descrip-
tive labels rather than numbers are used to denote the classes. Qualitative
variables are also referred to as categorical or discrete variables as well as
factors.
For both types of outputs it makes sense to think of using the inputs to
predict the output. Given some specific atmospheric measurements today
and yesterday, we want to predict the ozone level tomorrow. Given the
grayscale values for the pixels of the digitized image of the handwritten
digit, we want to predict its class label.
This distinction in output type has led to a naming convention for the
prediction tasks: regression when we predict quantitative outputs, and clas-
sification when we predict qualitative outputs. We will see that these two
tasks have a lot in common, and in particular both can be viewed as a task
in function approximation.
Inputs also vary in measurement type; we can have some of each of qual-
itative and quantitative input variables. These have also led to distinctions
in the types of methods that are used for prediction: some methods are
defined most naturally for quantitative inputs, some most naturally for
qualitative and some for both.
A third variable type is ordered categorical, such as small, medium and
large, where there is an ordering between the values, but no metric notion
is appropriate (the difference between medium and small need not be the
same as that between large and medium). These are discussed further in
Chapter 4.

Qualitative variables are typically represented numerically by codes. The
easiest case is when there are only two classes or categories, such as “suc-
cess” or “failure,” “survived” or “died.” These are often represented by a
single binary digit or bit as 0 or 1, or else by −1 and 1. For reasons that will
become apparent, such numeric codes are sometimes referred to as targets.
When there are more than two categories, several alternatives are available.
The most useful and commonly used coding is via dummy variables. Here a
K-level qualitative variable is represented by a vector of K binary variables
or bits, only one of which is “on” at a time. Although more compact coding
schemes are possible, dummy variables are symmetric in the levels of the
factor.
We will typically denote an input variable by the symbol X. If X is
a vector, its components can be accessed by subscripts X j . Quantitative
outputs will be denoted by Y , and qualitative outputs by G (for group).
We use uppercase letters such as X, Y or G when referring to the generic
aspects of a variable. Observed values are written in lowercase; hence the
ith observed value of X is written as x i (where x i is again a scalar or
vector). Matrices are represented by bold uppercase letters; for example, a
set of N input p-vectors x i , i = 1, . . . , N would be represented by the N ×p
matrix X. In general, vectors will not be bold, except when they have N
components; this convention distinguishes a p-vector of inputs x i for the
ith observation from the N -vector x j consisting of all the observations on
variable X j . Since all vectors are assumed to be column vectors, the ith
row of X is x Ti , the vector transpose of x i .
For the moment we can loosely state the learning task as follows: given
the value of an input vector X, make a good prediction of the output Y,
denoted by Ŷ (pronounced “y-hat”). If Y takes values in IR then so should
Ŷ ; likewise for categorical outputs, Ĝ should take values in the same set G
associated with G.
For a two-class G, one approach is to denote the binary coded target
as Y , and then treat it as a quantitative output. The predictions Ŷ will
typically lie in [0, 1], and we can assign to Ĝ the class label according to
whether ŷ > 0.5. This approach generalizes to K-level qualitative outputs
as well.
We need data to construct prediction rules, often a lot of it. We thus
suppose we have available a set of measurements (x i , y i ) or (x i , g i ), i =
1, . . . , N , known as the training data, with which to construct our prediction
rule.
